Create CF Save the Nature.mdx (#1409)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/CF Save the Nature.mdx

# Solution 

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log^2 N)$

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

### C++ Implementation

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;
using ll = long long;
using vl = vector<ll>;

int n; vl p;
ll x, a, y, b, k;

bool works(int sellTickets){
    vl percentages(sellTickets);
    // Add x% to every a-th ticket.
    for(int i=a-1; i<sellTickets; i+=a){
        percentages[i] += x;
    }
    // Add y% to every b-th ticket
    for(int i=b-1; i<sellTickets; i+=b){
        percentages[i] += y;
    }
    sort(percentages.begin(), percentages.end(), greater<ll>());
    ll cur = 0;
    for(int i=0; i<sellTickets; i++){
        cur += percentages[i]*p[i]/100;
    }
    return cur >= k;
}

void solve(int t){
    cin >> n;
    p.resize(n);
    for(int i=0; i<n; i++){
        cin >> p[i];
    }
    sort(p.begin(), p.end(), greater<ll>());
    cin >> x >> a >> y >> b >> k;
    int l = 0, r = n, ans = -1;
    while(l <= r){
        int mid = l + (r-l) / 2;
        if(works(mid)){
            ans = mid;
            r = mid-1;
        } else {
            l = mid+1;
        }
    }
    cout << ans << endl;
}

int main(){
    int q; cin >> q;

>     for(int i=1; i<=q; i++){

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    for(int i = 1; i <= q; i++){
```

        solve(i);
    }
}
```

</CPPSection>

<JavaSection>
    
### Java Implementation

> ```java

Reviewer: use tabs instead of spaces to indent

Reviewer: not fixed...?

Reviewer 2: you sure? i thought jesse did that alr

Reviewer: it's still spaces for me (and some indentation is also messed up), do you see tabs?

Author: ? I think I fixed it.

            while (lo <= hi) {
                int mid = (lo + hi) / 2;
                int[][] helpChances = new int[][] {
                        {prog1[0] + prog2[0], ((int) (mid / comboFreq))},
                        {prog1[0], (int) (mid / prog1[1] - mid / comboFreq)},
                        {prog2[0], (int) (mid / prog2[1] - mid / comboFreq)}
                };
                Arrays.sort(helpChances, Comparator.comparingInt(c -> -c[0]));
                
                int ticketAt = ticketNum - 1;
                long revenue = 0;
                for (int[] chance : helpChances) {
                    for (int i = 0; i < chance[1]; i++) {
                        revenue += tickets[ticketAt--] * chance[0] / 100;
                    }
                }

                if (revenue >= minRevenue) {
                    valid = mid;
                    hi = mid - 1;
                } else {
                    lo = mid + 1;
                }
            }
            System.out.println(valid);
        }
    }

    private static int gcd(int a, int b) {
        return b == 0 ? a : gcd(b, a % b);
    }
}
```

</JavaSection>

<PySection>
    
### Python Implementation

> ```py

Reviewer: tabs

Reviewer: not fixed

---
id: cf-1223C
source: CF
title: Save the Nature
author: Jesse Choe, Kevin Sheng
---

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/66993)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Explanation

```

Binary search on the answer for the minimum number of tickets, which we call $t$, to sell to make the total ecological contribution to at least $k$. 

Greedily, it is optimal to maximize the total revenue from selling these tickets since that will minimize the total number of tickets. If it is impossible to sell at least $k$ tickets, then output $-1$.

Additionally, the problem indicates that only $x\%$ of the $a$-th ticket and $y\%$ of the $b$-th ticket could contribute to the total ecological contribution. We can precompute the multipliers $pct$ (namely: x, y, and x+y) over all $t$ tickets, then greedily match the largest multiplier with highest value ticket by sorting the multipliers $pct$ and tickets $p$ in decreasing order. Our total ecological contribution is $\sum\limits_{i=1}^{t} p_i \cdot pct_i$.

> # Solution 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log^2 N)$

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

### C++ Implementation

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;
using ll = long long;

int n; vector<ll> p;
ll x, a, y, b, k;

bool works(int sellTickets){
        vector<ll> percentages(sellTickets);
        // Add x% to every a-th ticket.
        for(int i = a - 1; i < sellTickets; i += a){
                    percentages[i] += x;
        }
        // Add y% to every b-th ticket
        for(int i = b - 1; i < sellTickets; i += b){
                    percentages[i] += y;
        }
        sort(percentages.begin(), percentages.end(), greater<ll>());
        ll cur = 0;
        for(int i = 0; i < sellTickets; i++){
                    cur += percentages[i] * p[i] / 100;
        }
        return cur >= k;
}

void solve(int t){
        cin >> n;
        p.resize(n);
        for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
                    cin >> p[i];
        }
        sort(p.begin(), p.end(), greater<ll>());
        cin >> x >> a >> y >> b >> k;
        int l = 0, r = n, ans = -1;
        while(l <= r){

>                     int mid = l + (r - l) / 2;

Reviewer 2: please add some whitespace, it looks kinda bad rn

                    if(works(mid)){
                        ans = mid;
                        r = mid - 1;
                    } else {
                        l = mid + 1;
                    }
        }
        cout << ans << endl;
}

int main(){
        int q; cin >> q;
        for(int i = 1; i <= q; i++){

>             solve(i);

Reviewer 2: why's that argument necessary

Author: Oh I use it for GCJ lol.

---
id: cf-1223C
source: CF
title: Save the Nature
author: Jesse Choe, Kevin Sheng
---

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/66993)

Binary search on the answer for the minimum number of tickets, which we call $t$, to sell to make the total ecological contribution to at least $k$. 

> To check if a certain number of tickets reaches a minimal contribution of $k$, we can observe that in order to minimize the number of tickets sold, we should maximize the total revenue from selling these tickets. If, however, it is impossible to sell at least $k$ tickets after selling all tickets, then output $-1$.

Reviewer 3: "we can observe that in order to minimize the number of tickets sold" is irrelevant; bsearch handles this

"sell at least $k$ tickets after selling all tickets" has a typo.

Additionally, the problem indicates that only $x\%$ of the $a$-th ticket and $y\%$ of the $b$-th ticket could contribute to the total ecological contribution. Thus, we can iterate over every $a$-th ticket and $b$-th ticket at most $t$ and add $x\%$ to the total percentages contributing to an ecological program for each $a$-th ticket and $y\%$ for each $b$-th ticket, which we can store in $pct$.

It suffices to sort the tickets and percentages in decreasing order. Our total ecological contribution is $\sum\limits_{i=1}^{t} p_i \cdot pct_i$.

> We can move the binary search forward by comparing the amount of money we came up with with the amount of money required

Reviewer 3: This this last part is unnecessary

---
id: cf-1223C
source: CF
title: Save the Nature
author: Jesse Choe, Kevin Sheng
---

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/66993)

## Explanation

Binary search on the answer for the minimum number of tickets, $t$, to sell to make the total ecological contribution to at least $k$. 

> Let's try to determine the maximum revenue. If it is impossible to sell at least $t$ tickets with a revenue of at least $k$, then output $-1$.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's try to determine the maximum contribution attainable with $t$ tickets.
```

> Greedily, it is optimal to maximize the total revenue from selling these tickets since that will minimize the total number of tickets. If it is impossible to sell at least $k$ tickets, then output $-1$.

Reviewer 3: typo still not fixed. Should be $k$ revenue not tickets.

Also, 1st sentence may be better phrased as "Let's try to determine the maximum revenue ....."

> Additionally, the problem indicates that only $x\%$ of the $a$-th ticket and $y\%$ of the $b$-th ticket could contribute to the total ecological contribution. We can precompute the multipliers $pct$ (either $0$, $x$, $y$, or $x+y$ depending on the ticket) over all $t$ tickets, then greedily match the largest multiplier with highest value ticket by sorting the multipliers $pct$ and tickets $p$ in decreasing order. Our total ecological contribution is $\sum\limits_{i=1}^{t} p_i \cdot pct_i$.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The problem indicates that only $x\%$ of the $a$-th ticket and $y\%$ of the $b$-th ticket could contribute to the total ecological contribution. We can precompute these multipliers $pct$ (either $0$, $x$, $y$, or $x+y$ depending on the ticket) over $t$ tickets, then greedily match the largest multiplier with the highest value ticket. This can be done by sorting the multipliers $pct$ and tickets $p$ in decreasing order; then the maximum total ecological contribution would be $\sum\limits_{i=1}^{t} p_i \cdot pct_i$.
```

> Additionally, the problem indicates that only $x\%$ of the $a$-th ticket and $y\%$ of the $b$-th ticket could contribute to the total ecological contribution. We can precompute the multipliers $pct$ (namely: x, y, and x+y) over all $t$ tickets, then greedily match the largest multiplier with highest value ticket by sorting the multipliers $pct$ and tickets $p$ in decreasing order. Our total ecological contribution is $\sum\limits_{i=1}^{t} p_i \cdot pct_i$.

Reviewer 3: "... precompute the multipliers $pct$ (either $0$, $x$, $y$, or $x+y$ depending on the ticket) ..."
is probably more accurate

		cin >> p[i];
	}
	
	sort(p.begin(), p.end(), greater<ll>());
	
	cin >> x >> a >> y >> b >> k;
	
	int l = 0, r = n, ans = -1;
	
	while(l <= r){
		int mid = l + (r - l) / 2;
		if(works(mid)){
			ans = mid;
			r = mid - 1;
		} else {
			l = mid + 1;
		}
	}
	
	cout << ans << endl;
}

int main(){
	int q; cin >> q;
	for(int i = 1; i <= q; i++){
		solve();
	}
}
```

</CPPSection>

<JavaSection>
    
### Java Implementation

```java
import java.io.BufferedReader;
import java.io.IOException;
import java.io.InputStreamReader;
import java.util.Arrays;
import java.util.Comparator;

public final class SaveNature {
	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
		BufferedReader read = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
		int queryNum = Integer.parseInt(read.readLine());
		for (int q = 0; q < queryNum; q++) {
			int ticketNum = Integer.parseInt(read.readLine());
			long[] tickets = Arrays.stream(read.readLine().split(" ")).mapToLong(Long::parseLong).toArray();
			Arrays.sort(tickets);

			// first the percentage of the proceeds, then the frequency
			int[] prog1 = Arrays.stream(read.readLine().split(" ")).mapToInt(Integer::parseInt).toArray();

> 			int[] prog2 = Arrays.stream(read.readLine().split(" ")).mapToInt(Integer::parseInt).toArray();

Reviewer: lines 114, 118, 119 are too long

Author: @SansPapyrus683 pls fix

Reviewer 2: i mean how would i even make those shorter, java's just like that lmao

Reviewer: idk, maybe split into two lines?

Reviewer 2: yeah, but like how

---
id: cf-1223C
source: CF
title: Save the Nature
author: Jesse Choe, Kevin Sheng
---

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/66993)

Binary search on the answer for the minimum number of tickets, which we call $t$, to sell to make the total ecological contribution to at least $k$. 

> To check if a certain number of tickets reaches a minimal contribution of $k$, we can greedily observe that in order to minimize the number of tickets sold, we should maximize the total revenue from selling these tickets. If, however, it is impossible to sell at least $k$ tickets after selling all tickets, then output $-1$.

Reviewer 2: > We can greedily observe

seems a bit uh poorly worded

> Additionally, the problem indicates that only $x\%$ of the $a$-th ticket and $y\%$ of the $b$-th ticket could contribute to the total ecological contribution. Thus, we can iterate over every $a$-th ticket and $b$-th ticket at most $t$ and add $x\%$ to the total percentages contributing to an ecological program for each $a$-th ticket and $y\%$ for each $b$-th ticket, which we can store in $pct$.

Reviewer 2: what

Reviewer 2: > Thus, we can iterate over every $a$-th ticket and $b$-th ticket at most $t$

what does this mean
and how are we going to order the tickets even
not to mention handling the combo tickets

Author: > and how are we going to order the tickets even

sorting in descending order. Oh shit maybe i shld put that :(.

Reviewer 2: no you already said that
the thing is we already know how many x% tickets and y% tickets we have
but 1. how we're going to distribute them isn't really clear and 2. how the combo tickets are handled isn't mentioned at all

Reviewer 3: probably phrase it more like: we can precompute the multipliers over all $t$ tickets. then greedily match the largest multiplier w/ highest value ticket.

Reviewer 2: but what do we mean by "multipliers"? maybe we should mention explicitly that there's 3 types of multiples- x, y, and x+y

It suffices to sort the tickets and percentages in decreasing order. Our total ecological contribution is $\sum\limits_{i=1}^{t} p_i \cdot pct_i$.

> All that remains is to check whether the total sum of ecological contribution is at least $k$, which can be done in constant time.

Reviewer 2: just replace with "and then we can move the binary search forward by comparing the amount of money we came up with with the amount of money required"

Reviewer 2: but yeah maybe just remove it like siyong suggested

# Solution 

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N\log^2 N)$

Reviewer 2: maybe add the amount of queries into the complexity? not sure if needed tho

Author: Not needed since it says that the total sum of $N$ doesn't exceed 2*10^5

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

### C++ Implementation

> ```cpp

Reviewer: use tabs instead of spaces to indent

Reviewer: not fixed...?

#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;
using ll = long long;

> using vl = vector<ll>;

Reviewer 2: maybe remove this one

Author: Why?

Reviewer 2: The vector<ll> one- not sure it's included in the official template

int n; vl p;
ll x, a, y, b, k;

bool works(int sellTickets){
    vl percentages(sellTickets);
    // Add x% to every a-th ticket.

>     for(int i=a-1; i<sellTickets; i+=a){
>         percentages[i] += x;
>     }
>     // Add y% to every b-th ticket
>     for(int i=b-1; i<sellTickets; i+=b){
>         percentages[i] += y;
>     }
>     sort(percentages.begin(), percentages.end(), greater<ll>());
>     ll cur = 0;
>     for(int i=0; i<sellTickets; i++){
>         cur += percentages[i]*p[i]/100;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    for(int i = a - 1; i < sellTickets; i += a){
        percentages[i] += x;
    }
    // Add y% to every b-th ticket
    for(int i = b - 1; i < sellTickets; i += b){
        percentages[i] += y;
    }
    sort(percentages.begin(), percentages.end(), greater<ll>());
    ll cur = 0;
    for(int i = 0; i < sellTickets; i++){
        cur += percentages[i] * p[i] / 100;
```

    }
    return cur >= k;
}

void solve(int t){
    cin >> n;
    p.resize(n);

>     for(int i=0; i<n; i++){
>         cin >> p[i];
>     }
>     sort(p.begin(), p.end(), greater<ll>());
>     cin >> x >> a >> y >> b >> k;
>     int l = 0, r = n, ans = -1;
>     while(l <= r){
>         int mid = l + (r-l) / 2;
>         if(works(mid)){
>             ans = mid;
>             r = mid-1;
>         } else {
>             l = mid+1;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
        cin >> p[i];
    }
    sort(p.begin(), p.end(), greater<ll>());
    cin >> x >> a >> y >> b >> k;
    int l = 0, r = n, ans = -1;
    while(l <= r){
        int mid = l + (r - l) / 2;
        if(works(mid)){
            ans = mid;
            r = mid - 1;
        } else {
            l = mid + 1;
```
